Greetings.
This is just some notes on how to troubleshoot some errors found in GROMACS and PackMol.
Have fun! \(^,^)/

ERRORS

#1 

Fatal error:
number of coordinates in coordinate file (bilayer_DPPC.pdb, 17496)
             does not match topology (topol_dppc.top, 17362)

SOLUTIONS:

Edit [ molecules ] in topol.top file according to the pdb input file that you use.
If it's correct, make sure the itp file in similar to the pdb input file that you use. 
Check the atoms in both files, they need to be exactly similar.

P/s : Every single time when you see this error, recheck your topol.top file and 
make sure the file is tally with the input file, be it pdb, gro or ect.



#2

  ERROR: Packmol was unable to put the molecules
         in the desired regions even without
         considering distance tolerances. 
         Probably there is something wrong with
         the constraints, since it seems that
         the molecules cannot satisfy them at
         at all. 
         Please check the spatial constraints and
         try again.
  >The maximum number of cycles (          80 ) was achieved.
   You may try increasing it with the nloop0 keyword, as in: nloop0 1000 

SOLUTIONS:

It might not be possible for Packmol to pack the molecules according to the inp input file. 
It might be impossible for the software to put the atom at the position requested.

1. The length of the lipid. 

structure palmitoil.pdb 
  number 50
  inside box 0. 0. 0. 67.174 67.174 14.
  atoms 31 32
    below plane 0. 0. 1. *2.
  end atoms
  atoms 1 2
    over plane 0. 0. 1. *102.
  end atoms
end structure 

Measure again the length of the lipid structure and edit the figure that has been *-ed. You can use visualization software like Avogadro.

2. Atoms selected below and over the plane.

Recheck the atoms that should be at the respective positions and select the correct atoms.
You can use visualization software like VMD and Avogadro.


#3

ERROR: The cut-off length is longer than half the shortest box vector or longer than the smallest box diagonal element. Increase the box size or   decrease rlist.

SOLUTION :

This is probably because the box is smaller than the membrane itself.
Use this command to get the exact fit box dimension.

gmx editconf -f bilayer.gro -o bilayer_newbox.gro -c -d 0.0 -bt cubic

and then check the dimension of bilayer_newbox.gro using

tail bilayer_newbox.gro

then adjust the dimension of the old pdb file

gmx editconf -f bilayer_dppc.pdb -o dppc_newbox.gro -box <put your dimension here >

example : gmx editconf -f bilayer.gro -o bilayer_newbox2.pdb -c -box   12.17603  12.17603  12.17603



#4

ERROR : 

Fatal error:
Atom H00 in residue GLY 1 was not found in rtp entry GLY with 9 atoms
while sorting atoms.

For a hydrogen, this can be a different protonation state, or it
might have had a different number in the PDB file and was rebuilt
(it might for instance have been H3, and we only expected H1 & H2).
Note that hydrogens might have been added to the entry for the N-terminus.
Remove this hydrogen or choose a different protonation state to solve it.
Option -ignh will ignore all hydrogens in the input.


Residue 'GLY1' not found in residue topology database

SOLUTION :

In this case, I used rtp file to add new molecules in the system. This error is probably due
different residue name in the rtp file as compared to the pdb file. Please check and change the
residue name according to the pdb file.



#5

ERROR : 

bash: packmol: Permission denied

Solution :

make sure the 'packmol' file is in the same directory. Then, use this command to give permission for it to work

chmod 555 packmol

done!



#6

ERROR :

packmol: command not found

SOLUTION :

Use this instead,

./packmol